The President:
At this moment, our nation
is facing a host of big and
difficult challenges.
And more than anything else,
what's required to meet those
challenges right now is a sense
of cooperation and common
purpose among our leaders.
What we need is a willingness in
Washington to put the public's
interests first -- a willingness to score fewer political points
so that we can start
solving more problems.
That's why I was disappointed
this week to see a dreary and
familiar politics get in the way
of our ability to move forward
on a series of critical issues
that have a direct impact on
people's lives.
In the United States Senate,
we have legislation that would
boost our economic recovery
and help Americans who've been
affected by the worst
recession in generations.
We've certainly made progress since we were losing 750,000
jobs per month around
the time I took office.
Our economy is growing again,
and we've added jobs for five straight months.
But there are still millions
of Americans out of work,
and millions more who are
struggling to pay the bills.
The legislation in the Senate
right now would extend
unemployment benefits to those
workers who lost their job
through no fault of their own.
It would provide relief to
struggling states that would
help save the jobs of thousands
of teachers and cops and firefighters.
There are also provisions in
this legislation that would
extend the tax credit for
first-time homebuyers,
as well as tax cuts to keep
research and development jobs
here in the United States.
Unfortunately, the Republican
leadership in the Senate won't
even allow this legislation
to come up for a vote.
And if this
obstruction continues,
unemployed Americans will
see their benefits stop.
Teachers and firefighters
will lose their jobs.
Families will pay more
for their first home.
All we ask for is a
simple up or down vote.
That's what the
American people deserve.
Just like they deserve an up or
down vote on legislation that
would hold oil companies
accountable for the disasters
they cause -- a vote that's
also being blocked by the
Republican leadership
in the Senate.
Right now, the law places a $75
million cap on the amount oil
companies must pay to families
and small businesses who suffer
economic losses as a result
of a spill like the one we're
witnessing in the Gulf Coast.
We should remove that cap.
But the Republican leadership
won't even allow a debate or a vote.
And as we speak today, 136 men
and women who I've nominated for
key positions in the federal
government are still awaiting a
vote on the floor of the Senate.
All are highly qualified.
Very few are controversial.
The vast majority already have
support from both parties.
But most of them are seeing
their nominations intentionally
delayed by Republican leaders,
or even blocked altogether.
They cannot get a vote.
What this means is that, at
a moment when our country is
facing so many challenges -- a time when we need all hands on
deck -- we can't get the qualified people we need to
start the jobs they
were appointed to do.
Look, the nature of our
democracy is that we'll always
have disagreements and
debates -- even heated ones.
That's healthy and
it's important.
But let's argue over
genuine differences --
over ideas and policies.
And let's go into those
debates with an open mind --
a willingness to find common
ground and a conviction that,
in the end, one way or another,
we'll have a vote to decide them.
Next week, I'll be meeting with
a bipartisan group of Senators
to discuss how we can transition
away from our dependence on
fossil fuels and embrace
a clean energy future.
I don't expect that we'll agree
on a solution right away.
In fact, I know that there will
be plenty of disagreement and
different ideas.
But at least it shows that
Republicans and Democrats can
still sit down together in
an attempt to tackle the big
challenges facing our nation.
I know the political season
is upon us in Washington.
But gridlock as a political
strategy is destructive to the country.
Whether we are Democrats
or Republicans,
we've got an obligation that
goes beyond caring about the
next election.
We have an obligation to care
for the next generation.
So I hope that when
Congress returns next week,
they'll do so with a greater spirit of compromise and cooperation.
America will be watching.
Thanks.